---
layout: post
title: A Case for Minimalism
date: 2022-01-07 17:42:00
---
I just recently had the pleasure of spending the last week of my winter break moving all my belongings from one house to another. This came after my parents finalized the design plans for a renovation that would leave the top two floors of my house unlivable, and the basement packed wall-to-wall with furniture, all of which would have to be moved by me, my dad, and his two brothers. In lieu of a storage container, everything on the main and second floors would have to be moved to the basement, with the essentials going to the house we’d be renting for the duration of the project (conveniently located just across the street). That meant lifting up every bed, dresser, couch, and table (a fridge, too, I should add), and carrying it through some arduous combination of down a set of stairs, up a set of stairs, or across a snow-covered road. And what an ordeal it was; leaving me with a sore back and a newfound appreciation for professional movers—not quite the relaxing break I had in mind coming home from a stressful last week of school.

As I packaged all my things up into boxes and bins in the days leading up to our move-out date, it occurred to me just how much *stuff* I’d allowed to accumulate over the years and in between the every-so-often-but-not-often-enough decluttering sessions. I had, right in front of me, the physical proof of how easy it is for seemingly inconsequential objects—plastic trinkets, worn down school supplies, tangles of wires and obsolete pieces of tech—to amalgamate into an intimidating pile of junk that stares you down and demands hours of your day to sift through.

I couldn’t help but view it as a total waste of both time and space (not to mention the material cost of each object that got tossed into the garbage bin), with which there was no one to blame but myself. Had I refused to buy or collect these things in the first place, or even simply gotten rid of them when their usefulness began to wane, this could have all been avoided. And so the case for a more minimalistic approach to the keeping of one’s living space arose in my mind. I thought that by making the conscious decision of what to keep in my house, I’d be able to pare back the amount of stuff I owned, in effect reducing it to only the things I truly view as necessities.

As time goes on and I grow and change as a person, my needs and wants will shift accordingly and I’ll have to be able to let things go when they’ve run their course. Although that seems coldly utilitarian to write down, I believe there remains a place for sentimentality in what I deem “necessary” to my life; there’s a balance I’ll have to learn to find, but it’s not something I want to abandon.

It’s all too easy to define lofty goals that later fall through without long-term dedication—as much as I wish I could simply declare this once and with permanence, it’s important to recognize the gradual and continuous nature of lifestyle changes. It’ll take effort in the moment, but, as was made evident in that weeklong move, will be well worth it in the long run.
